Wine Grape Disease Methods

We used literature to build a preliminary list of the major pathogens affecting winegrapes (Vitis vinifera). This led to a list of forty-seven (see supplimentary list) pathogens which were seperated into four broad categories: fungal, bacterial, viral and pest. Using cabi.org, locations of all of the pathogens were obtained, as well as, information on the native regions of the pathogens. In addition, we used three websites (cite http://www.dpvweb.net/,http://nemaplex.ucdavis.edu/, https://nt.ars-grin.gov/fungaldatabases/) to obtain both synomyns and host species that the pathogens were found on. Finally, a webofscience search was conducted to identify how many papers had been published that included both the names of the pathogens and the various synomyns. 


Host cleaning
Using the host data obtained from the websites above, we scraped the data into txt files and ran code that cleaned them into one long dataframe that included the pathogen name, host genus, host species and host genus/species combined. 


Analyses 

All statistical analyses were carried out using R statistical software (R Development Core Team, 2017). We used the agricultural list, which included nine-hundred and forty-four species from the supplementary materials of Milla et al. (2018). Further, for our phylogentic analyses, we used the phylogeny from Zanne et al. (2014). Which was trimmed to only include all the host species that our pathogens were found on. We first, trimmed down our pathogen list to include only agricultural species based on the list obtained from Milla et al. (2018). We also correctly assumed that all pathogens in our list had at least Vitis vinifera as a host. Due to some species having "sp." in the host species column we decided to conduct two seperate analyses: one that assumes the entire genus was infected (by using the host genus column) and another where only the first species in the genus that matched with the Zanne et al. (2014) phylogeny. We calculated the mean pairwise distances (MPD), mean nearest taxon distance (MNTD) and focal distance to "Vitis vinifera" for both seperate analyses. The PICANTE package was used to calculate MPD and MNTD. 